Plainfolio is a relatively simple Portfolio interface on Rails for managing and displaying your projects. 

Includes tags, reordorable columns, password protection, WYSIWYG entry creation plus a range of output options (pdf, json, csv and rss).

---
- WYSIWYG via cleditor 
- PDF export is handled by Prawn. Depending on what your Portfolio looks like (image based? video based?) the default export can look pretty poor so you may want to edit generate_pdf.rb in the Services folder to change thumbnail sizes, etc.
- Json export is handled by Jbuilder and can be found in the json.json.jbuilder portfolios view file
- Pagination via will_paginate
- Entry URLs via Friendly_id
- jQuery color selection via jquery-minicolors-rails'
- impressionist to keep a very basic unique views count
---

Once installed you should see a 'create admin account' page. From there you can log in and create your portfolio.
Login at yourhost/login
Logout at yourhoust/logout
Small admin page (with hit stats, password change) at yourhost/admins (or click the 'admin' button when logged in)
---

To try it out on digitalocean in 10-15 minutes:
(accurate 5/12/2014 -- assumes intermediate knowledge of Rails & command line)

- Create a 1GB droplet running 'Ruby on Rails on 14.04 (Nginx + Unicorn)'. A $5/month droplet works but you might need to add swap (https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-add-swap-on-ubuntu-12-04) to do anything with bundler.
- Follow the Initial Server Setup with Ubuntu 14.04 guide (https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/initial-server-setup-with-ubuntu-14-04), at least to a point you have a new user with root priveleges set up.
- Open up your terminal & log into your server as your new user
- Naviate to /home/rails and temporarily give yourself ownership ('sudo chown -R YOUR-ACCOUNT-NAME:YOUR-ACCOUNT-NAME .' - note the '.')
- Connect via ftp, delete everything in home/rails/app and replace it with what's in the Plainfolio app folder
- Replace routes.rb in config with the Plainfolio one
- Replace everything in /db/ with everything in Plainfolio /db/
- overwrite gemfile & gemfile.lock in root rails folder
- back in the terminal, bundle update then bundle install the new gemfile
- Type 'RAILS_ENV=production rake db:create db:schema:load'
- Type 'rake assets:precompile'
- Type 'sudo service unicorn restart'
- Now change owner back to the default Rails one DO created ('sudo chown -R rails:rails .')
- Go to droplet IP and everything should be working. 